in 2011 one man turned the tennis world
upside down
the top-4 witnessed an unexpected
changing of the guard led by mr.
Djokovic you can see this year for the
first time no work is number one in the
world it's just something that I didn't
really have the words to describe it
then and the season kept kept getting
better
but still a rough r-roger the main goal
is be competitive in every tournament
even though things got tough at some
stages and I would say positive like the
top 20 player I think amazing and I
think they can beat each other each time
you play against one of the best players
you learn these things about you again
and also those everybody can beat each
other in the top 20 so it's quite
interesting to be able to throw the
pretenders are lining up once again but
can Djokovic remain dominant who better
to ask for the lowdown than 14 time
Grand Slam champion Pete Sampras Justin
Gimelstob caught up with him Pete what
were your thoughts in 2011 I was it was
quite a year for Novak Djokovic I mean
it was really incredible what he was
able to do the transformation in his
head has turned into this incredible
athlete who mentally has sort of figured
it out the guy just started off in
Australia to go from there to any well
as Miami go through the full court
season getting Rafa Nadal few times just
his year was incredible I didn't see it
coming on anyone saw it coming just
steamrolled and people I've never seen
anything like it and I've been really
one of the best years and ever seen it's
incredible with this
if Novak's towering achievements sent
shockwaves through the tennis world it
all peaked with a few glorious summer
days in London the Serbian superstar
claimed his first Wimbledon title and
went to number one in the world rankings
mens a lot I mean I even had a piece of
grass after death it was just I was full
of joy I was really delighted and it's a
it's a court that I always dreamed of
playing and and of course winning that
tournament was was I think every tennis
players dream and to become the best in
only two days was just something that I
didn't really have the words to describe
it he won three Grand Slams and five ATP
World Tour Masters 1000 events but if
Sampras was impressed one of his
greatest rivals was equally emphatic in
his price for the new name and really
one of the great years of all time in
our sport he's pushing the sport forward
fed did it then adult called and raised
and now now Djokovic is doing it so I
look forward to seeing how he handles
that moment for the only major Novak
failed to win in 2011 was the French
Open where Rafa Nadal was crowned
champion for a record sixth time on the
clay of Roland Garros Rafa still reigned
supreme and the Spaniard according to
Sampras by now faces biggest test it was
a good year for Rafa wasn't a great year
he won the French as we know he was
dominant over the years now he's up
against someone that he doesn't really
know how to play this guy there is I
feel very solid players on the top so
being really complicated who in
tournaments when my team because the
level is being really really high so
he's a good moment for for our sport in
my opinion
come the Barclays ATP World Tour Finals
one man reminded us he wasn't done yet
let's talk about one other player who
has maybe the greatest of all time Roger
Federer but took a step back outside the
top three for the first time in a long
time
what does he have to do to get back in
the conversation with these young guys
that are improving and dominating tennis
right now well Roger is at the point
he's 30 he's done everything in the game
he's up against these kids that are in
their prime through 24 25 remember when
I was that age this is this is it and I
felt Roger had a really good year not a
great year Roger is gonna be there and I
really feel like he can win another
major you know he's motivated he loves
the tour he loves the travel you know
he's gonna play for another 10 years and
he just loves it that was made clear to
everyone in London that the
season-ending finale last November since
2002 I've always been part of the World
Tour Finals is my 10th say year in a row
I'm part of it it's been always one of
the big highlights for me throughout my
career to be able to play there I
remember the first few times when I had
a slight chance to qualify I was so
nervous at the end of the year to make
it that they could hardly play tennis
anymore so now since 10 years I've been
able to make it and been so proud to be
part of the you know the Elite Eight and
sort of get a chance to finish the year
absolutely high at the world tour finals
and so to the final member of the
fantastic fool
Andy Murray had an excellent year won a
bunch of much masters won thousands but
it excellent in the fall but didn't
quite take that Nestle how do you see
vista chasm as a success um pretty good
i give them about a beat I think an ease
to the point where he needs to win a
major Murray's demolition job on Rafa in
the Tokyo final underline his talent
I think when you you look back at your
career you know you'll remember you know
tournaments that you want and finals
that you you lost and that's a to win a
final against Rafa who's one of the best
players ever some to know I'll
definitely remember for a long time
there's a big fall and they will begin
as the men to beat as the race to London
resumes for 2012